DOCS-2756 Rewrite and reoganize SLO-based monitor page (#12473)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/service_level_objectives/monitor.md

In the details UI for the SLO, Datadog displays two decimal places for SLOs configured with 7-day and 30-day time windows, and three decimal places for SLOs configured with 90-day time windows.

The following example demonstrates why Datadog displays a limited number of decimal places for SLO calculations. A 99.999% target for a 7-day or 30-day time window results in an error budget of 6 seconds or 26 seconds, respectively. Monitors evaluate every minute, so the granularity of a monitor-based SLO is also 1 minute. Therefore, one alert would fully consume and overspend the 6 second or 26 second error budget in the previous example. In practice, teams cannot satisfy such small error budgets.

If you need finer granularity than the once a minute monitor evaluation, consider using [metric-based SLOs][3] instead.

### Add name and tags

Choose a name and extended description for your SLO. Select any tags you would like to associate with your SLO.

Select **Save & Exit** to save your new SLO.

## Status calculation

{{< img src="monitors/service_level_objectives/aggregate_slo.jpg" alt="SLO detail showing 99 percent green with 8 groups aggregated"  >}}

> Datadog calculates the overall status as the percentage of the time where **all** monitors or **all** the calculated groups in a single multi-alert monitor are in the `OK` state. Datadog does not calculate the average of the aggregated monitors or the aggregated groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog calculates the overall status as the percentage of the time where **all** monitors or **all** the calculated groups in a single multi-alert monitor are NOT in the `ALERT` state. Datadog does not calculate the average of the aggregated monitors or the aggregated groups. Monitor-based SLOs will also treat the `WARN` state as `OK`. This is because an SLO's definition requires a binary distinction between good and bad behavior, thus `WARN` is treated as good behavior since it is not severe enough to be considered bad behavior.
```

Time-based data sets usually map well to monitor-based SLOs. Using a monitor-based SLO, you can calculate the Service Level Indicator (SLI) by dividing the amount of time your system exhibits good behavior by the total time.

{{< img src="monitors/service_level_objectives/grouped_monitor_based_slo.png" alt="monitor-based SLO example"  >}}

## Prerequisites

To create a monitor-based SLO, you need an existing Datadog monitor. To set up a new monitor, go to the [monitor creation page][1].

Datadog monitor-based SLOs support the following monitor types:
- Metric Monitor Types (Metric, Integration, APM Metric, Anomaly, Forecast, Outlier)
- Synthetic
- Service Checks (open beta)

## Setup

On the [SLO status page][2], select **New SLO**.

Under **Define the source**, select **Monitor Based**.

### Define queries

In the search box, start typing the name of a monitor. A list of matching monitors appears. Click on a monitor name to add it to the source list.

### Set your SLO targets

Select a **target** percentage, **time window**, and optional **warning** level.

The target percentage specifies the portion of time the underlying monitor(s) of the SLO should not be in the ALERT state.

> The time window specifies the rolling time period over which the SLO runs its calculation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The time window specifies the rolling period the SLO runs its calculation.
```

Depending on the value of the SLI, the Datadog UI displays the SLO status in a different color:
- While the SLI remains above the target, the UI displays the SLO status in green.
- When the SLI falls below the target, the UI displays the SLO status in red.

> - If you included a warning level, and the SLI falls below the warning but above the target level, the UI displays the SLO status in yellow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you included a warning level, and the SLI falls below the warning, but above the target level, the UI displays the SLO status in yellow.
```

The time window you choose changes the available precision for your monitor-based SLOs:
- 7-day and 30-day time windows allow up to two decimal places.
- 90-day time windows allow up to three decimal places.

> In the details UI for the SLO, Datadog displays two decimal places for SLOs configured with 7-day and 30-day time windows, and three decimal places for SLOs configured with 90-day time windows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the details UI for the SLO, Datadog displays two decimal places for SLOs configured with 7-day and 30-day time windows and three decimal places for SLOs configured with 90-day time windows.
```

> A 99.999% target for a 7-day or 30-day time window results in an error budget of 6 seconds or 26 seconds, respectively. Monitors evaluate every minute, so the granularity of a monitor-based SLO is also 1 minute. Therefore, one alert would fully consume and overspend the 6 second or 26 second error budget in the previous example. In practice, teams cannot satisfy such small error budgets.

Reviewer: We should make it clearer that the point of this example is to illustrate why three decimal places don't make sense for 7-day or 30-day targets

If you need finer granularity than the once a minute monitor evaluation, consider using [metric-based SLOs][3] instead.

### Add name and tags

Choose a name and extended description for your SLO. Select any tags you would like to associate with your SLO.

## Example

> You might be tracking the uptime of a physical device. You have already configured a metric monitor on `host:foo` using a custom metric. This monitor might also ping your on-call team if it's no longer reachable. To avoid burnout, you want to track how often this host is down. A monitor-based SLO using your custom metric can show you at a glance whether the amount of downtime for the `foo` host falls within your target range.

Reviewer: This paragraph makes it sound like tagging your SLO is unique to custom metrics, which isn't true

## Status calculation

> {{< img src="monitors/service_level_objectives/overall_uptime_calculation.png" alt="overall uptime calculation"  >}}

Reviewer: Let's replace this image with https://a.cl.ly/X6ubgYo0

> Monitor-based SLOs treat the `WARN` state as `OK`. The definition of an SLO requires a binary distinction between good and bad behavior. SLO calculations treat `WARN` as good behavior, since `WARN` is not severe enough to indicate bad behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Monitor-based SLOs treat the `WARN` state as `OK`. The definition of an SLO requires a binary distinction between good and bad behavior. SLO calculations treat `WARN` as good behavior since `WARN` is not severe enough to indicate bad behavior.
```

- Retry a specified number of times before a location's test is considered a failure (default: 0)

If you change any of these conditions to something other than their defaults, the overall status for a monitor-based SLO using one Synthetic test could appear to be better than the aggregated statuses of the Synthetic test's individual groups.

For more information on Synthetic test alerting conditions, see the Synthetic Monitoring [documentation][4].

### Impact of manual and automatic monitor updates

When a monitor is resolved manually or as a result of the **_After x hours automatically resolve this monitor from a triggered state_** setting, SLO calculations do not change. If these are important tools for your workflow, consider cloning your monitor, removing auto-resolve settings and `@-notification` settings, and using the clone for your SLO.

Datadog recommends against using monitors with `Alert Recovery Threshold` and `Warning Recovery Threshold` as they can also affect your SLO calculations and do not allow you to cleanly differentiate between a SLI's good behavior and bad behavior.

Muting a monitor has no effect on the SLO calculation.

> To exclude time periods from an SLO calculation, use the [SLO status corrections][5] feature.

Reviewer: We should add a new subsection here to talk about the impact of the NO DATA state. Ultimately what happens is: if the underlying monitor has notify_no_data set to false then NO DATA is treated as OK by the SLO, if the underlying monitor has notify_no_data set to true then NO DATA is treated as ALERT by the SLO.

- Wait until a specified number of the groups are failing (default: 1)
- Retry a specified number of times before a location's test is considered a failure (default: 0)

If you change any of these conditions to something other than their defaults, the overall status for a monitor-based SLO using one Synthetic test could appear to be better than the aggregated statuses of the Synthetic test's individual groups.

For more information on Synthetic test alerting conditions, visit the Synthetic Monitoring [documentation][4].

### Impact of manual and automatic monitor updates

> When a monitor is resolved manually or as a result of the **_After x hours automatically resolve this monitor from a triggered state_** setting, SLO calculations do not change. If these are important tools for your workflow, consider cloning your monitor, removing auto-resolve settings and `@-notification` settings, and using the clone for your SLO. (**Note for Mark Azer:** This paragraph was in the original doc. I copied it, moved it here, and tried to reword it to be clearer, but I may have changed the meaning? Please review and clarify.)

Reviewer: This is still accurate

- Wait until a specified number of the groups are failing (default: 1)
- Retry a specified number of times before a location's test is considered a failure (default: 0)

> If you change any of these conditions to something other than their defaults, the overall status for a monitor-based SLO using one Synthetic test could appear to be better than the aggregated statuses of the Synthetic test's individual groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you change any of these conditions to something other than their defaults, the overall status for a monitor-based SLO using one Synthetic test could appear better than the aggregated statuses of the Synthetic test's individual groups.
```

> For more information on Synthetic test alerting conditions, see the Synthetic Monitoring [documentation][4].

Author: ```suggestion
For more information on Synthetic test alerting conditions, see [Synthetic Monitoring][4].
```

### Impact of manual and automatic monitor updates

When a monitor is resolved manually or as a result of the **_After x hours automatically resolve this monitor from a triggered state_** setting, SLO calculations do not change. If these are important tools for your workflow, consider cloning your monitor, removing auto-resolve settings and `@-notification` settings, and using the clone for your SLO.

Datadog recommends against using monitors with `Alert Recovery Threshold` and `Warning Recovery Threshold` to underlie an SLO. These settings make it difficult to cleanly differentiate between an SLI's good behavior and bad behavior.

> Muting a monitor has no effect on the SLO calculation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Muting a monitor does not affect the SLO calculation.
```

For monitors configured to ignore missing data, time periods with missing data are treated as OK by the SLO. For monitors configured to alert on missing data, time periods with missing data are treated as ALERT by the SLO.

## Underlying monitor and SLO histories

SLOs based on the metric monitor types have a feature called SLO Replay that backfills SLO statuses with historical data pulled from the underlying monitors' metrics and query configurations. When you create a new Metric Monitor and set an SLO on that new monitor, you do not have to wait a full 7, 30, or 90 days to view the SLO status. Instead, SLO Replay triggers when you create the new SLO and looks at the history of the monitor's underlying metric and query to fill in the status.

SLO Replay also triggers when you change the underlying metric monitor's query to correct the status based on the new monitor configuration. As a result of SLO Replay recalculating an SLO's status history, the monitor's status history and the SLO's status history may not match after a monitor update.

**Note:** SLOs based on Synthetic tests or Service Checks do not support SLO Replay.

## Other considerations

> Confirm you are using the preferred SLI type for your use case. Datadog supports monitor-based SLIs and metric-based SLIs as described in the [SLO metric documentation][3].

Author: ```suggestion
Confirm you are using the preferred SLI type for your use case. Datadog supports monitor-based SLIs and [metric-based][3] SLIs.
```
